1.) An agent harness's scope should extend beyond an IDE/code generation utility, aiming to be a true AGI assistant. (Another axiom of mine is that Chat GPT 3.5 could be considered AGI, it was just missing the harness/body to allow itself to act as such, but that's beyond the scope of this conversation) 

2.) An agent harness's environment should be self documenting and iteratively co-authored through engagement with the user, and its folder structure should lend itself to both logic and therefore transparency. Agents have home directories with clearly marked 'AI only,' 'human only,' and 'both' boundaries that are enforced programmatically. 3.) An agent harness should be model/API agnostic, or better yet, model/API interoperable within the same turn (i.e., we should be able to queue claude inferencing for a creative task or creative input, or queue codex for a more analytical situation, or both). 

4.) For the core harness, support for model/inferencing providers should be considered carefully and changed rarely. We will not waste time trying to integrate with unfriendly APIs, or setting up support for anyone with an LLM. For most serious multi model scenarios local inferencing, AWS or Azure are the recommended solutions. We also are of the opinion that only two different model families (one specializing in creativity and expression, and the other specializing in complex analytical problem solving) are typically necessary, and more than that is usually more harm than good. 

4.) Local inferencing is the future, and likely is coming sooner than previously expected. Similarly, local code is now cheap and relatively easy to generate on the fly, as needed. An agent harness should reflect this, and prefer localized solutions when the difference is negligible.

5.) Agent harness configurations should be part of the agent harness environment, should be self documenting, stupidly easy to understand and set up, and be restrictive by default, meaning that if the configuration for something doesn't exist, it defaults to requiring human approval to proceed further. 

6.) An agent harness should be lightweight by default, but allow the agent to easily extend its functionality when needed AND it should do this on its own with simple scripts to connect to APIs directly, rather than utilizing insecure plugin marketplaces. Instead, if there is a marketplace, it consists of a list of instructions that agents can use to set up similar functionality by writing code themselves instead of trusting existing code. 

7.) Despite being lightweight, the agent should ALWAYS have access to the following tools/systems by default: memory AND conversation history as a searchable system, MCP based plugins/integrations, skills, agent documents (SOUL.md, MEMORY.md, PERSONALITY.md, etc), cron job scheduling, hooks, subagent runs, complex/multi turn planning, heartbeats/wake inputs. Most of these should be off by default, but easy to turn on. Memory, conversation history, agent documents, and skill generation should all be turned on out of the box, albiet with default cleanup behaviors, and models should be able to create their own subagents when needed, but anything beyond those behaviors should require an explicit, obvious, and easy config change. Agent docs should be populated with data encouraging the model to update them itself, but not necessarily be preloaded with expected behaviors, aside from the configuration model which loads with first install.

8.) Default agent configurations SHOULD exist when the harness is booted for the first time. This may include template agents at a later date, but to start this should primarily include a configuration agent that will help the user set up there environment for the first time, fix issues as they arise, or make adjustments later, and a simple script writing agent that should be hidden away from the user unless they explicitly call out that they are a strong software engineer in some capacity. 

9.) Conversations should be treated as ephemeral, but easily auditable in practice. From a user perspective, there should be basically no difference between 

10.) Wherever possible this agent harness should be interoperable with all other agent harnesses and agent harness environment, as long as doing so does not sacrifice the above stated objectives in a material and sufficiently impactful manner. 

11.) Supported exposure surfaces/channels should be carefully considered, and rarely changed. By default, the core application you should only be able to connect to the agent harness server from either your localhost web browser, or from the TUI (and possibly command line). Anything else is an add-on.